King Solomon's Mines
Southern Africa in the year 1870
Quasi!
Yes, Encolo Chifka Gull.
Have you found the boy, Umbupa?
Bring him here!
Yes, Encolo!
Bring the prisoner!
Are you the boy they call Umbupa?
Don't dishonor me by pretending that you do not know my name!
I am your chief!
Call me Encolo!
I will not do that!
Never! You are not my chief!
I am your chief!
Address me as Encolo! All you will die!
You are not my chief! My father, Imotou was chief!
Your father is dead!
So, I am chief!
You are only ten years old!
You are not a man!
Then my uncle Quasi should rule until I am a man!
Quasi!
Yes, Encolo Chifka Gull.
You are this boy's uncle.
Who is the rightful Encolo chief of the Kukwana?
You are Encolo Chifka Gull.
You see, Umbupa, even your uncle is a faithful servant
to the new Encolo chief.
So now, you have a choice.
Accept me as your Encolo chief.
Or die.
I will never accept you as my leader.
You are not even a descendant of a chief!
Kukwana Amazulu!
Brothers and sisters of the Kukwana tribe!
Listen to my words.
My father did not die a natural death.
Gagul poisoned him.
I saw her do it.
She is an evil witch!
Stop him!
I am Umbupa!
Son of Imotou!
But to Bupa, she do Imotou!
Imotou, she do Ignose!
Imotou, the son of Ignose!
Silence, her boy!
I am your chief! I am...
Take him to Kumbabwe!
And kill him!
You will regret this Gagul.
I will return to destroy you.
No, Umbupa.
You will never return.
Take him away!
Bupa!
Bupa! Bupa! Bupa!
Here we are.
Kumbabwe!
The sacred mountain.
Umbupa?
Have you made your peace with the spirits of our ancestors?
I do not need to make my peace crazy.
The spirits of our ancestors are on my side.
But I will bring the anger of the spirits down on you and all your family.
Make peace with the spirits of Umbupa! Please!
You know you must do this.
If you don't, your soul will never rest.
You are right, Quizzy.
If you kill me, my soul will never rest.
I will follow you until you are dead and then your soul will have no rest.
Umbupa, you are my brother's son.
I know you are in Kulu.
But...
Wait!
Yes, sir.
Can you hear that?
It is the sound of the spirits of our ancestors.
They are telling you that what you are doing is wrong.
Spirits of our Kukwana ancestors!
Bupa, Bupa, Chedu, Emudu.
Emudu, Chedu, Nousi.
Nousi, Kukwana, Emudu.
Kumbabweg is shaking.
You have walking the spirits in the mountain.
Quizzy?
Quizzy, where are you?
I'm here.
I will help you.
No!
Umbupa, leave me.
Go.
Save yourself.
And when the spirits tell you, come back and reclaim your tribe.
You are here.
Ten years later, at the house of Alan Quartermane in Durban, Southern Africa.
Mr. Quartermane?
Yes.
I'm sorry to disturb you.
I'm Sir Henwick Curtis, and this is Captain Thomas Godwin.
Please to meet you, Quartermane.
Heard a lot about you.
Mr. Quartermane, there's a matter of some importance that we wish to speak to you.
I'm afraid I've only this minute arrived from Cape Town, and I long journey, certainly.
But we have come from London.
From London?
Yes.
All right.
Let's talk on the veranda.
Florence, bring drinks for my guests.
You'll have a very beautiful home, Mr. Quartermane.
Thank you, Sir Henwick.
Now, would you mind telling me the reason for your visit?
Before I answer that question, Mr. Quartermane, may I ask you something?
About this time last year, you were in the north of Transval.
Am I right?
Yes.
Near the Lukango River beyond Matabili.
How did you know that?
What were you doing there?
I was hunting elephants.
It's what I do.
I'm an ivory trader.
But I'm sorry.
Why all these questions?
Mr. Quartermane, I will explain.
But one last question.
Last year at Matabili, did you meet a man called George Neville?
George Neville?
Are George Neville?
Yes, I did.
When was the last time you saw him?
A year ago.
At the time you're referring to.
I haven't seen him since then.
Do you know what happened to him?
Can I once again ask the reason for these questions?
I'm here in Africa because I want to find George Neville.
He is my brother.
Your brother?
But Neville is not his real name.
His real name is George Curtis.
I see.
The thing is, Quartermane.
George Curtis left England a year ago with a ridiculous plan to come to Africa to look for a diamond mine.
He booked a passage to Cape Town and hasn't been heard of since.
I see.
Captain Godwin.
What is your interest in this matter, if I may ask?
George Curtis is married to my sister.
They left her and their two children in England to go off from this ridiculous adventure.
So, for the second time of asking, have you any idea what his plan was?
Well, you're right.
Neville, your brother, was looking for a diamond mine.
He told me he intended to search for a place which is known as King Solomon's Mine.
So, it's true.
This is what I heard, but what are King Solomon's Mines?
King Solomon's Mines, if they exist, are said to contain more and better diamonds than any mines in Africa or indeed the world.
Really?
Where are they, Captain Godwin?
If people knew the exact location of King Solomon's Mines, they would have been discovered long before now.
No one knows.
They do know where they are said to be.
Where?
They are said to be in the Suleiman Mountains to the north of Matabili.
And that's where the name comes from.
Suleiman.
Solomon, you see?
Nothing to do with King Solomon at all.
I see.
So, when you were in Matabili, you were close to these mountains?
Not at all.
A few miles beyond the Lukanga River, there's nothing but desert.
The Kukwana Desert, it's called.
The Suleiman Mountains are beyond the desert.
I see.
Have you ever crossed the Kukwana Desert?
Cross the Kukwana Desert?
Sanri, only a madman would try to do that.
Why?
Is it too big?
It is indeed big, but the size of the desert is not the problem.
There are other reasons too.
The Kukwana Desert is named after the Kukwana tribe.
The desert and the Suleiman Mountains are their homeland.
They believe that the area is a spirit world inhabited by their ancestors.
Mr. Quarterman, as far as you are aware, has any white man ever crossed the Kukwana Desert?
I only know of one.
Who was that? A man called Jose Silvestre.
Do you know him?
I met him.
Do you know where we can find him?
I'm afraid he's dead.
Oh, I'm sorry. What happened to him?
Well, I will tell you what I know.
About two years ago, I was at a miserable godforsaken place on the Lukanga River, called Sitanda's Crown.
While I was there, I fell ill.
A fever. I could hardly move for three weeks.
Sitanda's crawl is not a place that many white people reach,
so I was surprised one day when a European was shown into my tent.
It turned out he was Portuguese.
Mr. Quarterman.
Who are you?
What do you want?
My name is Jose Silvestre.
What are you doing at Sitanda's Crown?
I need your help.
What for?
I want to find King Solomon's diamond mines.
King Solomon's mines?
Don't make me laugh. It hurts.
You find the idea amusing.
Of course I do.
No one has ever found King Solomon's mines.
They probably don't exist.
This is what I believe too.
Until I was given this.
What was it? What did he have?
A map. A map?
Giving the location of King Solomon's mines.
Did you think it was genuine?
No. Of course not.
Not at the time.
Anyway, Silvestre could see that I was ill
and that he wasn't going to persuade me to join him,
so he set off with just a servant to accompany him.
To be honest, I forgot all about him.
But then, about two weeks later,
there was suddenly a lot of shouting outside my tent.
What is it?
It is the man who was here before Massa.
What? The Portuguese, chap?
I do not know Massa.
What the man?
Are you there?
God, Silvestre, what the devil has happened to you?
What the man?
I was there.
I saw King Solomon's mines.
But the kukwana came after me,
and I had no water.
But they are there.
What the man? I saw them.
Calm down, man. Take it easy.
Poor man.
Sir, did he find the mines?
Do you think?
I don't know for sure.
But at what?
In his bag, I found the map.
And some diamonds.
Do you have the map?
Yes. Can we see it?
I'll go and get it.
So, this is the desert,
and beyond the desert,
here are the Suleiman Mountains.
According to this map,
there are forests and plenty of fresh water,
and this mountain here is called Kong Badway.
I discovered that this is kukwana for sacred mountain.
The mines seem to be somewhere on this mountain.
I see.
Did you show this map to my brother?
No, I didn't have it with me when I met him.
But did you tell him about it?
Yes.
And I told him what happened to Sylvestere too.
I told him he was mad to try and find the mines.
Sir Henry, buy the map from Courtomaine,
then we can find some natives to guide us and we can get there ourselves.
You think it's that easy, do you?
Well, I wish you the best of luck.
No, it will definitely not be easy.
I know that, but one thing I do know, Mr. Courtomaine,
I'm sure that you are the only person who can help us find my brother.
Me?
Well, I am also a very rich man,
and I will pay you not just to let me have the map,
but also to accompany us to the Solomon Mountains.
Sir Henry, I will accompany you on one condition.
Name your condition.
I have a son who lives in London.
He studies medicine.
He depends on me for money so that he can continue his studies.
If anything happens to me,
I want to make sure that he completes them.
So be it.
I will send a telegram to my solicitor in London tomorrow.
I will arrange that your son can complete his medical training at my expense
in the event of anything happening to you.
Oh, to me.
Now, will you accompany us?
Yes, good man.
Excellent.
We will start making preparations tomorrow.
Leave that to me.
I know where to get what we need and how to get the best price.
But I will tell you now.
We have as much chance of surviving an attempt to reach the Solomon Mountains
as that man Silvestre.
Good morning, Alan.
Good morning, Sir Henry.
How are preparations for the journey?
Not good, I'm afraid.
I have the wagons that we need and the provisions,
but I can't find servants who are prepared to travel with us.
I have a driver.
His name is Gozer and he's a good man,
but he's only prepared to come with us as far as Sitanda's crawl.
He won't cross the Kukawana desert.
Don't worry.
I have found someone.
Two men, in fact.
You have.
Did you tell them where we are going?
Yes, of course.
I told them we were going to the Solomon Mountains to look for my brother.
They seem like good, strong men.
One of them is rather quiet,
but the other is a very intelligent man.
He speaks English well, too.
Of course, you must have the final decision quarter-main,
so I have brought them here this morning.
Here, yes.
They are waiting outside.
Would you be so kind as to speak to them?
Certainly.
These are the men.
I see.
Do you speak English?
Yes, Master.
And you?
You know that we are planning to travel across the Kukawana desert
and into the Solomon Mountains?
Yes, Master.
We are Kukawana.
We know those lands.
Have you heard of the place we call King Solomon's Mines?
Yes, Master.
Do you know where they are?
No one knows where they are, Master.
I see.
What are your names?
This man is Kiva.
And you?
I...
I am Ubopa.
So it was that six of us departed for the north.
So Henry, Captain Godwin and myself,
goes to the driver, Kiva and Umbopa.
It was a journey of a thousand miles.
It was the second week in March before we made camp near Sitanda's Crow.
We left Goza with one wagon there,
and the five of us set off towards the Kukawana desert.
Umbopa and Kiva led the Oxen,
and Sir Henry, Captain Godwin and I followed with our rifles at the ready.
It was then that I noticed some marks on Umbopa's back.
They looked as if they had been made with a knife.
Umbopa?
Yes, Master.
What are those marks on your back?
It looks as if you had a fight with a lion.
No, Master.
I don't think I would leave to tell you about that.
Whatever the marks were, Umbopa was quite clearly not planning to tell us about them.
That night, we made camp near the river for the last time.
The next morning, we had to turn north towards the desert.
I woke early and started preparing to leave.
When I went to wake the others, there was no sign of Captain Godwin.
Kiva!
Yes, Master.
Where is Captain Godwin?
He went into the forest, Master.
I tell him there are elephants, so he went to sea.
Oh, my God.
The man's a fool.
Go and find him and tell him to come back immediately.
What on earth was that?
I don't know.
Umbopa?
Yes, Master.
Go and find out what is going on.
What in God's name is happening?
I don't know, but we'd better find out.
Come on.
Sir Henry and I began running in the direction of the noise.
It was clear that Sir Henry hadn't run anywhere for a while.
I was soon a long way ahead of him.
Then I saw Godwin running towards me.
Godwin, what the hell is going on?
I shot an elephant.
You did what?
I couldn't stop myself.
It was feeding.
It was a sitting target.
But I only wounded it.
You fool!
He made a dreadful noise and ran towards me.
Then Kiva arrived.
He started shouting and running across the elephant's path.
It turned and went for him.
He tore him to pieces.
I'm sorry.
I think he's dead.
When buried Kiva in the forest,
Umbooper said a few words in Kukwana,
then turned and spoke to us.
Kiva was the bravest of brave men.
Here, here.
Captain Godwin, Kiva saved your life.
But you have done something very bad.
I know that.
It is worse than you think.
Kiva was a Kukwana, and you caused his death.
We are already on Kukwana land.
You have raised the spirits of our ancestors.
You must not anger the spirits again.
Later that day, we finally reached the Kukwana desert.
It stretched out in front of us.
Crossing it seemed an impossible and foolish task.
After three days, we could see the mountains in the distance.
Then, on the fourth day...
Sir Henry.
Court men.
Look.
What is it, Godwin?
Street ahead.
Trees.
Thank God.
Trees means water.
In less than an hour, we reached the trees.
The good news was that there was a small lake and a forest beyond it.
We all threw ourselves into the water, drinking and washing the sand off our faces.
The bad news was that we were not alone.
Godwin was the first to notice that we were being watched.
On the edge of the forest stood a group of natives, about 30 of them.
Most of them were carrying Asagai, the spears that make them such frightened warriors.
One of them shouted something, and as one, they charged towards us.
Godwin ran to the wagon and picked up a rifle.
Stop or I shoot!
The natives had clearly never seen a rifle before, so they didn't stop charging towards us.
Then...
One of them fell to the ground, wounded.
The others stopped, then began to charge again.
I thought we were all as good as dead, but then Umbopa stepped in front of the natives and began shouting at them.
To my amazement, they stopped and listened to him.
Kortonane, to understand what he's saying, not sure.
I think he's telling them that he's the son of someone called Ignosin, who is the son of the Great Chief Imotto.
At this point, something extraordinary happened.
Umbopa turned his back on the natives, and three of them walked towards him.
Godwin raised his gun again.
Godwin looked astonished, but did as he was told, the natives looked at the marks on Umbopa's
back.
To my absolute astonishment, the natives threw their asagai away and fell to the ground,
as if praying at Umbopa's feet.
It was some time before any of us could speak.
Sir Henry was the first to try to find out what was happening.
Umbopa, who do you mind telling us what's going on?
These men are Kukwana warriors, but they have been banished from their tribal home, because
they criticize the woman who calls herself in Kulu chief of the Kukwana.
They are outlaws.
If they go back, they will have to fight for their lives.
Thanks to the spirits of our ancestors, we have found each other.
What do you mean found each other?
Since they were banished, they have searched these lands for their true leader.
I am their true leader.
You?
What?
I am the true chief of the Kukwana.
Ten years ago, my father was killed, poisoned by an evil woman, Gagul, who now calls herself
in Kulu chief.
She tried to kill me too, but the spirits of our ancestors know this.
And these men know this story too.
They have been searching for me.
Pardon me for doubting you, Umbopa, but how do these men know that you are their chief?
Because of the marks on my back, only the son of a chief has these marks.
Now these men will follow and obey me, and I must lead them.
Lead them?
Where?
It is time for me to take my place as in Kulu chief of my tribe.
They have a leader who is not the true in Kulu.
I must fight her men in battle and defeat them.
Tomorrow, we will leave to do battle with Gagul and her men.
Leave, but what about us?
You promised to help us find George Curtis?
No, Captain Daudwing.
I promised to lead you to the Suleiman Mountains.
This I have done.
I have also saved all of your lives.
Without me, you would all be dead now.
Thomas, please, for once in your life, listen, Umbopa.
I understand what you want to do, but we still need your help.
We have to find King Solomon's minds and see if my brother is there.
I need to know if he came here and if anyone saw him.
Wait, I will talk to my people.
For some minutes, he returned.
Sir Henry, I asked the men if they had seen a white man here.
What did they say?
Use your brother, a tall man.
Yes, very tall.
A tall white man was here last year.
He had one finger missing from this hand.
His left hand.
Yes, that's right.
It's George.
Where did they see him?
Where did he go?
They think he was captured by Gagua's men.
Oh, God, no.
And then what?
They took him to Kongbabwe, the tall mountain you can see over there.
Kongbabwe, sacred mountain.
That's where the mines are.
Umbopa, we must go there.
Very well.
But you must know that Kongbabwe is a sacred place for us.
It is the resting place of the spirits of our chiefs.
It is dangerous for you to go there.
When the spirits are angry, Kongbabwe also becomes angry.
But we have to go there.
We have to find out what happened to my brother.
You will never find your way to Kongbabwe alone.
You will get lost in the forest.
I will tell one of the men to go with you.
Achata!
Enkulu Umbopa.
This man is my father's brother.
His name is Kwezi.
So he is also a descendant of the great chief, Emoto.
He will lead you to Kongbabwe and Korna Suleiman.
Korna Suleiman, Suleiman Cave, the place you call King Solomon's mines.
So you know where it is.
The next morning, we set off through the dense tropical forest towards Kongbabwe.
There was no path and the walk was hard.
But Kwezi knew the way.
We walked for hours until we found ourselves at the foot of the mountain.
After a short rest, we began to climb.
Suddenly, Kwezi stopped in front of a pile of rocks.
This is Korna Suleiman, please help me.
Kwezi indicated that we had to move the rocks, so we all began to pull at them.
They were large rocks and it was hard work.
Eventually, we could see a dark cave.
It's time to light the torches.
We lit torches and walked into the cave.
It was dark and damp and looked like any other cave.
We walked further and further.
Then suddenly, the light from the torches began to reflect on diamonds.
Hundreds of them.
Some were on the ground.
Others were still in the rock on the walls of the cave.
My God!
Look at all these diamonds!
We have to take some of them with us, Korna Man.
Korna Man, where are you?
I had walked on ahead of the others and I saw something.
I'm over here.
Sir Henry, I think you should come here.
I'm coming.
What is this?
Look.
Where?
What can you see?
Down below.
Down there.
Look.
There's something there.
I can't see anything.
I think, I think, it's a skeleton.
A skeleton?
Dear God.
I'll climb down and have a closer look.
Be careful, Godwin.
The rocks look dangerous.
I'm all right.
Oh my God.
It is a skeleton and...
Sir Henry, I'm afraid it's bad news.
There is no middle finger on the left hand.
It's George.
Oh no.
Please, God, I hope his death wasn't too violent.
Korna Man, do you think we can...
Shh, quiet.
Listen.
What on earth is that noise?
It's an earth tremor.
Quick.
We have to get out.
What's happening?
Godwin, it's an earth tremor.
Climb back up.
We have to get out.
I can't hear you.
Look out!
What's happening?
I can't see a thing.
There was a rock form.
Godwin's buried.
We must try to get him out of there.
Are you mad?
Tons of rock just fell on him.
He didn't have a chance of surviving that.
We have to get out.
The whole cave is falling down.
Come on!
The entrance to the cave has disappeared.
We're trapped.
We have to find another way out.
But look.
Over there.
There's a kind of tunnel in the rock.
It may be a way out.
I put down my torch and began to crawl into the dark tunnel of rock.
It was a small space.
And as I crawled through it, it got even narrower.
I felt like a rat in a drain pipe.
And I was beginning to panic.
But I could breathe.
Air was coming from somewhere.
The space began to get wider.
And soon, I was able to stand up.
In front of me, there was another entrance to the cave.
Soon, Sir Henry emerged from the tunnel behind me.
We were safe.
God be praised.
Well done, Courtney.
I thought we were going to die in there, Sir Henry.
I think we are still in trouble.
What?
Why?
Look.
Outside the cave, there was a band of natives.
But they were not Umbopa's warriors.
Leading them was a tall, fierce woman.
I realized to my horror that we must be in the presence of the evil chief, Gagul.
White men, you have entered the Kona Solomon.
And you have woken the anger of our ancestors.
You will die for this.
Kill them!
There seemed no way to escape now.
I was convinced that these were the last moments of my life.
But then, suddenly, Umbopa appeared behind Gagul alone.
Gagul!
Who are you?
I am Umbopa, in Kolo Chief of the Kukwana.
Umbopa.
Impossible.
Umbopa is dead.
No, Gagul.
You killed my father.
But you could not kill me.
The spirit saved me and brought me back here to defeat you.
You will never defeat me.
No one will defeat me.
Kill him.
Now!
Before Gagul's men could meet Umbopa.
Crazy and the other outlaws appeared behind them.
Gagul's men were taken by surprise and were killed or taken prisoner almost immediately.
Two of Umbopa's warriors held Gagul and another was about to drive an Asagai through her heart.
Stop!
Don't kill her!
Gagul, you deserve to die because you have murdered the Kolo Chief of our people.
Then kill me.
I am not afraid of death.
No.
A murder is not resolved by another murder.
We will go back to our homeland.
And we will both face the justice of the Kukwana people.
They will decide who they want to be in Kolo Chief.
Me or you?
Take her away.
I will join you later.
Yes, yes.
Sir Henry, you have been into Kona Suleiman.
What did you find there?
We found the body of my brother.
I am sorry.
And where is Captain Godwin?
He was killed by a rockfall.
You are a noble and a brave man, Sir Henry.
You did what you had to do.
Did I?
I don't know.
Of course, I mean, I want to leave this place immediately.
We must return to Dublin.
And how do you propose to do that, Sir Henry?
You forget that we have no provisions and no one to guide us.
I told you that only a fool would try to find King Solomon's minds.
But there must be some way we can get back.
If you can think of a way we can do that, then please tell me.
Because I have no idea how we will do it.
We will help you to return to Dublin.
I will send five men with you.
They will make sure you have food to eat.
And they will protect you until you reach Sitala's Club.
We made our way slowly and wearily back to Dublin.
And we were almost dead with exhaustion when we finally reached my house.
Sir Henry rested for a few days and returned home to England.
When he left, I decided to write this account of what happened.
I have seen the legendary King Solomon's minds.
My son's future as a doctor is secure.
But my health is not good and I don't expect to live much longer.
Let this serve as a warning to anyone else who tries to find King Solomon's minds.
You may not live to tell the tale.
How am I going to carry this water all the way to the village?
I'm not surprised you have a pain in your back, Jata.
It's all that time you spend lying down.
That's such a bad thing to say.
Be happy, Jata.
Your husband is our chief, a great man.
And he loves you.
If one Jew really loved me, he would carry this bucket for me.
No man would do that for a woman.
Men are lazy.
You are right, Mumbi.
All men are lazy.
But your husband is a lion among men.
He looks after us well.
Everyone loves him.
Everyone except Jumbo.
Jumbo, true.
The medicine man is jealous of your husband.
Everyone knows that.
He wants to be chief.
Yes.
Don't worry, Jata.
It will never happen.
When Jiro is chief for life,
Jumbo will never be chief.
Come, let's go back.
You know they are meeting this afternoon.
Who?
The chief, Jumbo and the other elders.
Why?
They will talk about Juan Jiro's idea.
Oh, yes.
The nature reserve.
I don't understand.
Around the village, there is land, there are animals.
What is the difference if it is called a nature reserve?
If it becomes a nature reserve,
it means that the land will be protected.
There will be wardens in Land Rover cars.
They will make sure that poachers are kept off the land.
But who will pay for all this?
The aid development organization.
It is an international organization
which helps to improve our lives.
Do you remember the white people who came to the village last month?
Yes.
Now I remember.
So, do you think the nature reserve idea is a good one?
Yes, I do.
But Jumbo is against it.
Why?
These days, he is against everything that Juan Jiro suggests.
Paul Juan Jiro, he tries so hard to be understanding
and fair to everyone.
But Jumbo makes that so difficult for him.
And look!
What is it?
A cow, lying on the path.
It is echinia's cow.
Dead?
Oh no.
Poor echinia.
But how was it killed?
Look at those marks on its neck.
It looks as if it was attacked by a lion.
But when did this happen?
It was not here when we came to the west three hours ago.
We must warn the village.
No, no, no.
Jumbo!
What is it, Jumbo?
You must stop this plan now.
We do not need a nature reserve here.
Why must you always oppose me, Jumbo?
Whatever I say, I can be sure you will suggest the opposite.
It pleases you to say that, Juan Juro, but it is not true.
Not true!
Why are you against the idea of a nature reserve?
It is perfect for us.
It will protect our land and our animals, both the animals of the village
and the animals in the wild.
It will stop the poachers who are a real problem.
I am tired of hearing of dead elephants killed for their tusks.
I agree.
The poachers must be stopped.
You agree?
You agree with something I say, I am amazed.
There are other ways we can stop them.
We do not need a nature reserve.
Yes, we do.
It is the best thing for us.
We need trained people who can patrol our land and keep our animals safe from poachers.
We can patrol the land ourselves.
But there is no need to make our land a nature reserve.
If we do that, we have to deal with the aid development organization.
White people.
White people do not understand our way of life.
They will force us to do things their way, not our way.
You are wrong, Jumbo.
I had a meeting with the aid development people last week.
They want nothing from us.
They will give us money and let us make our own decisions.
They will find some way to control us.
What is your feeling, Runo?
I agree with you, one Jumbo.
Of course you do.
You are one Juro's footstool.
I will not forgive you for that, Jumbo.
I am shaking with fear, Runo.
Murithi, you've said nothing at all.
What is your opinion?
I agree with you, Jumbo.
I am afraid the aid development people will control us.
You see.
We'll call a meeting of the whole village.
You will find, Jumbo, that most people are in favor of the idea of a nature reserve.
They will not be after they hear me speak.
We shall see.
Now, this cow that was found this morning on the path to the well, who has seen it?
Mombi took me to see it.
It looks as if it was killed by a lion.
But it didn't eat any part of the cow.
That is strange.
This lion must be ill.
We'll have to send out a search party to find it.
Runo, will you lead it?
Of course, one Juro.
Good.
The meeting is ended.
Chief one Juro, wait.
What is it, Murithi?
Jumbo is in a trance.
We must listen to his words.
I see bad things coming.
Many bad things are, tribe is in danger.
I said the meeting is ended.
What?
Ended?
Have you no respect for me?
I am the medicine man, and you must listen when I speak.
When you talk sense, then I will listen.
He does not yet understand the power of magic, but he will.
Momboko! Momboko!
What is it, Chege?
Where are you going?
Some of our cows have disappeared.
I have to find them.
I will come with you.
Why are you carrying a gun?
Because of the lion.
The lion?
Are you planning to shoot it?
Of course.
Then I will be a hero in the village.
And the lovely matter will fall in love with me.
Seriously, Momboko, this is not a good idea.
You know you have to get permission from my father, one Juro,
before you kill a lion.
You know that.
I will only kill the lion if it attacks me.
I am not stupid.
We will have to be careful.
Of course.
But we also have to find the cows.
How many are missing?
Three.
Chege.
Look.
What?
Over there.
A cow.
Where?
I can't see anything.
It is lying on the ground.
Come on.
Is it dead?
Yes.
And look.
The others are over there.
Oh no.
What was that?
A lion.
Where is it?
I don't know.
The noise is coming from over there.
In those bushes.
Chege.
Oh no.
What was that?
A lion.
Where is it?
I don't know.
The noise is coming from over there.
Chege.
We must kill it.
We cannot kill a lion without the permission of my father.
One zero will understand.
Our animals are more important.
Wait.
Let me go back to the village and find him.
No.
Stop.
I can see it.
Where?
There.
In the bushes.
I am going to shoot it.
Go go.
Stop.
Why?
The lion.
I can see it now.
It's white.
A white lion?
Are you sure?
Yes.
We cannot kill a white lion.
We must go back and tell one zero what we have seen.
Okay.
Let us go.
Quickly.
Please.
Close the door.
You all know why I called this meeting.
More of our animals have been killed and a lion has been seen.
But a white lion.
When was a white lion last seen in our land?
Stop.
What must we do?
One zero.
Please give us your commands.
Even if the lion is a white lion, it must be killed.
Mike.
No.
I have something to say.
What is it, Chilmo?
We cannot kill a white lion.
It is forbidden.
It has come for a reason.
And what is this reason?
We are being punished.
Why do you think we are being punished, Chilmo?
I do not know.
But I will find out.
Please tell us what you discover.
In the meantime, I have an idea.
Our friends from the aid development agency can help us.
I have spoken with them.
If we wish, they will go out in their land rovers and look for the lion.
We do not need these white men.
They have helped us before and they can help us again.
What do our people think?
Do you agree that I should ask the development workers to do this?
Yes.
Then it is agreed.
I will ask them.
And if they see the lion, do not let them shoot it.
You will bring disaster to our people.
They will not shoot it.
But we must find it before more animals are killed.
Yes.
Right.
Runo, what do you want?
I need to speak with you.
Please.
Come in.
What do you want to talk to me about?
You made fun of me at the last meeting.
I am not happy about that.
Let me apologize.
Your apology is accepted.
If it is real.
Of course.
I am a man of honor.
Now tell me.
Did you find the lion?
No.
We have searched all the forests around the village.
It is very strange.
There is no sign of a lion.
No sign at all.
And the white men in the Land Rover.
They have found nothing either.
There are no lions at all between here and Malinde.
You will find nothing.
Because this lion is a spirit.
It can be seen or not seen.
Visible or invisible.
And when it is seen.
It is seen in different places at the same time.
What?
How do you know?
Many people have told me.
Itumu, mukami, nukjogu and gary.
They all saw it at the same time yesterday.
Are you sure?
Do you doubt the word of a medicine man?
No.
Of course not.
But what are we to do?
We have to discover why the lion is here.
Then we will know what to do.
And I have a plan.
Someone is here to see you.
Should I leave?
No.
Stay.
I think it is Wakera.
The daughter of Mumbi.
Mumbi's daughter.
She is only eight years old.
Why is she visiting you?
Small children can often see things we cannot see.
She can help me find the answer to the mystery of the lion.
Are you serious?
You are going to ask a child to explain the mystery.
Bruno, do not question the ways of the medicine man.
Please let Wakera in.
And stay to listen to what she has to say.
Welcome, Wakera.
You want to see me, Basa?
Please, sit down here.
Wakera, you see this bowl of water?
Yes.
With it, you can help me solve the mystery of the white lion.
How?
Hold the bowl in both hands.
Look into the water.
Tell me what you see.
I can't see anything.
Look again.
Oh.
Now, I can see a lion.
What?
What color is the lion, Wakera?
White.
Are you sure the lion is white?
Yes.
And he looks angry.
Very angry.
Wakera, ask the lion why he is angry.
Why are you angry?
He is angry with the chief.
Angled with the chief?
Yes.
He says the chief is a bad man.
What?
A bad man?
Oh.
I'm frightened.
I made the lion angry.
Don't worry, Wakera.
You have done very well.
You can go now.
But I cannot leave.
The lion is near.
Wait.
It is safe now.
Bruno?
Yes.
Will you take Wakera back to her home?
Of course.
Thank you.
Murithi, you can come in now.
Is everything all right?
Yes.
Well done.
You did well.
I did my best.
Where is the recording machine?
Here.
When it is dark, take it to the cave.
We do not need it anymore.
The plan is going well, Murithi.
But there is one thing I don't understand.
Wakera saw nothing in her water.
How did you persuade her to tell lies?
I told her that she would grow into a beautiful woman if she helped me.
Chummo, you should not lie to a child.
It is for the greater good, Murithi.
Soon the whole village will know that the chief is a bad man.
And soon after that, you will be the new chief.
Who is this?
I don't know.
We must not let them in.
They must not see the recording machine.
Leave by this door.
Take the machine.
Give it to me.
Your phone!
Chummo, are you there?
Quickly.
Chummo, you are here.
And you, Murithi.
Why didn't you answer when I called?
And what is that machine?
Mumbi.
Did you know that four cows have been killed now?
Yes.
Everyone is sure that a lion is responsible.
A white lion.
But, white lions never come to this part of the country.
What is that machine?
Mumbi.
Did you know that four cows have been killed now?
Yes.
Everyone is sure that a lion is responsible.
A white lion.
But, white lions never come to this part of the country.
I know.
It is strange.
Oh, Jata.
Look.
Someone is coming to the well.
Who is it?
I think it's Bruno.
Bruno?
Coming to the well?
Maybe his wife has sent him to get water.
Now that is not possible.
Bruno.
Why are you coming to the well?
Are you going to carry water home for your wife?
He doesn't look very happy.
Bruno.
Why are you looking so serious?
Jata.
I need to speak to you.
Speak to me then.
I have some bad news.
What's the matter?
The lion.
Oh no.
There are more dead animals?
No.
Not animals.
What has happened then?
Jata.
You must please come with me.
What's wrong?
What's happened?
The lion has killed again.
But this time...
This time?
Tell me.
Not...
Not one jiro.
No.
It is not one jiro.
Then who?
It is Chege.
Chege!
My son!
Where?
He is in the field of yams outside the village.
Oh!
No.
The lion has killed my son.
Even if it is a white lion.
I will kill it.
I will kill it with my bare hands.
Oh, Chege!
Where is she?
Where is Jata?
Inside.
Jata.
I'm here.
Speak to me.
Why, Chege?
He was so good.
So fine.
This holy lion ripped out my son's heart.
I want to die.
I want to die too.
You know what they are saying.
That it's punishing our tribe because of your actions.
The child wakira saw it in the water.
But I've done only good.
I've brought water to our fields.
Because of this, our crops grow well.
Then maybe it's because you are dealing with white men.
Whatever it is.
It's too late for my son.
Here they come.
Wanjiro and Jata.
Poor Jata.
She looks ready to die.
Poor Wanjiro.
His oldest son.
The meeting started.
Let us begin.
You have all heard the news.
Wanjiro, Jata.
Words cannot express our grief.
We are grieving with you.
Thank you, my friends.
It's time to take action.
What should we do, Wanjiro?
Find this animal and kill it.
Wanjiro.
What is it, Jumbo?
First, please accept my sorrow at the death of your son, Chege.
Thank you, Jumbo.
But I have to repeat.
The animal which killed your son is a white lion.
The white lion is a spirit who has come to punish us because of our evil deeds.
In fact, because of your evil deeds, Wanjiro.
What is my shield?
I don't know what you think you are saying, but...
I will tell you, Wanjiro.
The lion is punishing us because of your dealings with the white man.
Please explain your meaning, Jumbo.
Listen to my words, everyone.
Chief Wanjiro wants to build a natural reserve.
We all know this, Jumbo.
But there is something you do not know.
Chief Wanjiro has made a secret arrangement with the white men.
He plans to sell them land near the coast so that they can build an airport, roads, hotels,
and expensive places that only foreigners can afford.
This is a secret plan and the white men will pay Wanjiro for this!
What?
What do you have of this nonsense, Jumbo?
You met with these men last week?
Yes.
Everyone knows that.
Someone else from our people was at that meeting.
Yes.
Murithi was with me when I met them.
Murithi, tell the rest of us about the meeting.
It is exactly as Jumbo said.
You thought I would stay silent if the white men paid me enough.
But you were wrong.
What are you doing?
Murithi, what are you saying?
It is time for you to go, Wanjiro.
You and Jata are in disgrace.
You must leave the village.
What are you doing?
Hello?
Jum, it's Mike.
Hi, Mike.
How's it going?
Did you get to see Chief Wanjiro today?
No, I didn't.
Listen, Jum, something strange is going on down there.
Wanjiro has been sent out of the village in disgrace.
What?
Why?
I've been trying to find out.
What I do know is that a guy called Murithi is the new chief.
But the medicine man...
Jumbo?
Yeah, that's him.
He's the one who's really in charge.
And he doesn't want to have anything to do with us.
Oh, no.
This is terrible.
All that work wasted.
Where is Wanjiro?
He and his wife have moved into an apartment here in Malindi.
An apartment in the town?
For a village tribal chief?
Yes.
But there's something else.
I was in the main street of Malindi this morning.
And I saw Jumbo.
You saw Jumbo in town?
Yes.
I've seen him here a few times.
But this morning, I saw him talking to a couple of South African guys.
Tim Hawkins and Monty Klein.
I don't know them.
Do you?
Not personally.
No.
But I know who they are.
They've both been in prison for illegal ivory trading.
My God.
What do you think we should do?
Well, first of all, we should go and see Wanjiro.
I agree.
I'll come and pick you up.
Hello, Jada.
Runo, hello, come in.
Is Wanjiro here?
Yes.
Follow me.
Wanjiro.
Runo, this is an unexpected pleasure.
Come in and sit down.
I will bring some water.
Thank you.
This.
This must be very difficult for you, Chief.
To live here.
Like this.
Well, all right.
Tell me your news.
Moritha has been elected, Chief.
Moritha.
Hmm.
Interesting.
But Jumbo is the one with the power, no doubt.
Runo.
I have to ask you something.
Did you believe Morithi's story that I secretly agreed to sell land to the white men?
Do you believe that I would do that?
After all the years, you've known me.
Do you believe me or do you believe Morithi?
No, Chief.
But why would he...
You can't see why he would lie.
No.
Neither can I.
Goodness.
So many visitors today.
Oh.
Hi.
We're here to see the check.
Oh, I'll take this one. Follow me, please.
Of course.
Thank you.
Juan Jiro, the men from the aid development are here.
Mike, hello.
So good to see you.
Hello, Juan Jiro.
This is Runo, one of my oldest friends.
Please to meet you, Runo.
This is my colleague, Jim Ray.
Hi.
Juan Jiro, I have something important to tell you.
Can we speak privately for a moment?
Mike, anything you want to say, you can say in front of Runo.
Okay.
I have some news for you.
I saw Chumbo this morning, here in Melinde.
Really?
What was he doing?
He was talking to a couple of South Africans.
They're criminals, lawbreakers, a couple of poachers who are well known to the police.
They make their money selling elephant tusks on the black market.
This is unbelievable.
Of course.
Now it all makes sense.
This is why Chumbo was against the nature reserve.
If we have a nature reserve, the land will be patrolled by wardens,
and poachers will have a difficult time.
We have no proof of this, of course.
No, that's right.
But this is going to affect us, too.
So, we're planning to keep an eye on Chumbo for the next few days.
Yes, please do that.
I will help you.
Thank you, Runo.
It is the least I can do for an old friend.
It's good of you to help us, Runo.
We've invested a lot of money in this project.
If the people in the village tell us to leave, it will all be wasted.
Most people are thankful for the work you have done.
I'm glad to hear it.
Okay.
You want us to drop you away from the village, right?
Yes.
I prefer to work the last few miles by myself.
Okay.
Where are you going, Mike? You took a wrong turning there.
Did I?
Is this the wrong way, Runo?
Well, it is also possible to get to the village down this road.
So, what's down here?
It leads to the Nakuro cave, a very sacred place.
No one except the chief and the medicine man are allowed to visit it.
I see.
Boy, this is a rough road.
What's that light up ahead?
But, that is where the cave is.
But there should be no light there.
Maybe we should take a look.
Let's go and see what's going on.
We are here.
The Nakuro cave.
Well, there's no one here now.
But there was someone here a while ago.
There's a fire burning.
Let's take a look around.
Look at this.
What is it?
It's a lion's head mass.
And this thing next to it looks like an old rug.
Phew.
What a smell.
This is the coat of a lion.
Are you sure?
Lion coats aren't this color.
This is creamy white.
Wow.
Of course.
The white lion.
And look at this.
A huge tape recorder.
Jesus.
Did you hear that?
A white lion's coat.
And a tape recording of a roaring lion.
I think we should take these things and show them to the people in the village.
Come on.
People, welcome to my first meeting as your new chief.
I want to tell you my plans for the future of the village.
Hey, sir.
What is that noise?
Who is there?
The white men are here in the Land Rover.
The white men?
How dare they?
And Bruno is with them.
Oh, where are those?
They're coming here to the meeting.
Don't let them in.
Chumble.
Please don't say that.
We must let them in.
Should I open the door and let them in?
Yes.
Let them in.
Greetings, chief Morithi and medicine man Chumble.
What do you want?
We have come to pay our respects to the new chief.
Well, you can do this and then you can leave.
Okay.
We'll do that.
But first, we want to show you some things that we found at the Nakuro Cave.
Michael!
No.
You have been to the Nakuro Cave?
Yes.
We have.
Bruno, you had no right to go there.
The Nakuro Cave is a sacred place for our people.
If you took them there, you will be punished.
Well, before you decide on Bruno's punishment, take a look at this lion's head mask, Michael.
And this lion's coat, which has been painted white.
And we also found this tape recorder.
Let's listen to the tape, shall we?
What?
What are you doing?
Sorry.
You see, the white men were responsible for the white lion.
They tried to trick us.
No, Chumble.
You and Morithi are the guilty ones.
You and your South African friends who have been killing elephants and stealing their tusks for ivory.
You are the ones who killed Chege and sent when Jiro into exile for crimes he did not commit.
It was Chumble.
He killed Chege.
What are you doing?
Fire!
Bruno is trying to escape.
Stop here.
Don't worry.
He won't get far.
The police are here.
Stop.
You are under arrest.
Ahh!
Oh, my God!
One Jiro is back.
Welcome back, one Jiro.
Welcome Jata.
Thank you, Bruno.
It is good to be back.
Yes.
Home again.
It is a good feeling.
And Chumble and Morithi.
What happened to them?
Morithi was arrested.
You will face trial for murder.
And Chumble?
He tried to escape from the police.
And the police officer fired at him and shot him in the shoulder.
And then he ran into the forest.
I see.
Did the police find him?
No.
Mumbi found him the next morning.
Near the well.
He was dead.
Dead?
Yes.
Mumbi said it looked as if he had been attacked by a lion.
A real lion this time.